feat: faq draft (#21)
yieldprotocol/docs: docs/FAQ.md

# Frequently Asked Questions

If you can't find the answer to your question here, please ask us in [Discord](https://discord.com/channels/752978124614008945).

## General

### How is the Yield Protocol monetized?
The Yield company doesn't have a monetization plan yet. All fees in the liquidity pools go to liquidity providers.

### How can I find you on uniswap?

> There is no governance token. You will not find us on uniswap. You could find the fyDai or fyDaiLP tokens on Uniswap or other exchanges, but you should get better prices for them in [Yield](app.yield.is) since we are tailored to the paticularities of trading fyDai, such as maturity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no governance token. You will not find us on Uniswap. You could find the fyDai or fyDaiLP tokens on Uniswap or other exchanges, but you should get better prices for them in [Yield](app.yield.is) since the app is tailored to the particularities of trading fyDai, such as its maturity date.
```

If you click each series of the pool you should be able to find the liquidity of each pool.

### How much does it cost to use the Yield Protocol
Below there is a table with the maximum reported cost in GAS of the actions that you can take with Yield. Use the [Eth Gas Station Tx Calculator](https://ethgasstation.info/calculatorTxV.php) to find out the current USD cost.

Main authorisation - 131,000 GAS - proxy.onboard
Each series unlock - 171,000 GAS - proxy.authorizePool

Post ETH           - 163,000 GAS - proxy.post
Withdraw ETH       -  87,000 GAS - proxy.withdraw
Borrow Dai         - 235,000 GAS - proxy.borrowDaiForMaximumFYDai
Repay Borrowing    - 312,000 GAS - proxy.repayDaiWithSignature

Lend Dai           - 124,000 GAS - proxy.sellFYDai
Close Lending      - 190,000 GAS - proxy.buyDaiWithSignature

Add Liquidity      - 477,000 GAS - proxy.addLiquidity
Remove Liquidity   - 312,000 GAS - proxy.repayDaiWithSignature

Redeem fyDai       - 240,000 GAS - fyDai.redeem

### I had to sign and authorize nine times before being able to provide liquidity. Why are there so many steps?

> The Yield Protocol is coded as a set of core contracts that provide very basic, but very robust, functionality. A separate contract (the YieldProxy) exists to allow users to interact with the core contracts easily. The first transaction authorizes the YieldProxy to act with your assets in the core contracts. Within that first transaction we embed an extra signature to allow the YieldProxy to access the Dai in your wallet. You will see this as three confirmations in your browser, the first two instantaneous, and the second taking as much time as the blockchain takes to process it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Yield Protocol is coded as a set of core contracts that provide very basic, but very robust, functionality. A separate contract (the YieldProxy) exists to allow users to interact with the core contracts easily. The first transaction authorizes the YieldProxy to act with your assets in the core contracts. Within that first transaction ([`onboard`](https://github.com/yieldprotocol/fyDai/blob/959305da5c658d8146db56b2c0f61ee9c425de92/contracts/peripheral/YieldProxy.sol#L129-L140)) we embed an extra signature to allow the YieldProxy to access the Dai in your wallet. You will see this as three confirmations in your browser, the first two instantaneous, and the second taking as much time as the blockchain takes to process it.
```

By using off-chain signatures this becomes a single transaction, and costs about 130,000 gas. Check with [Eth Gas Station](https://ethgasstation.info/calculatorTxV.php) for the current cost.

> Each series is an ERC20 token that acts as a Pool for Dai and fyDai of a certain maturity. To interact with each series you need to authorize the YieldProxy to trade for you in the pool, to access the fyDai of that series in your wallet, and for the pool to access the dai in your wallet. You will see three instantaneous confirmations, which get bundled in a single transaction. The cost of unlocking each series is about 170,000 gas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each series is an ERC20 token that acts as a Pool for Dai and fyDai of a certain maturity. To interact with each series you need to authorize the YieldProxy to trade for you in the pool, to access the fyDai of that series in your wallet, and for the pool to access the dai in your wallet. You will see three instantaneous confirmations, which get bundled in a single transaction ([`authorizePool`](https://github.com/yieldprotocol/fyDai/blob/959305da5c658d8146db56b2c0f61ee9c425de92/contracts/peripheral/YieldProxy.sol#L142-L157)). The cost of unlocking each series is about 170,000 gas.
```

In other protocols, fees are typically charged in proportion to the amount being sold.  In the Yield App liquidity pools, prices are computed in “yield space” rather than “price space”—meaning that the fees impose a proportional spread on interest rates, rather than on prices. The exact fee calculation is detailed in our [YieldSpace paper](https://yield.is/YieldSpace.pdf) in Section 5. As a rough approximation, the fee is about 5% of the current interest rate. For example, when the marginal interest rate of an automated liqiduity pool is 10%, a borrower might see a marginal interest rate of ≈10.55%, while a lender might see a marginal interest rate of ≈9.47%.

### When telegram?
We have a thriving community in [Discord](https://discord.com/channels/752978124614008945), join us there!

### What assets can be borrowed or lent? What collateral can be used. 
The Yield Protocol v1 only permits borrowing and lending of Dai, and only accepts ETH and Chai collateral. Chai collateral is not currently supported in the Yield App. 

### Is this built with UMA?
Yield is not built with UMA. It is built on top of Maker.

### Are there any major differences between fyDai and UMA's uUSD?

> The main differences are the collateral assets, the settlement assets, and the pool mechanics.

Reviewer 2: Clayton answered this in a good way: 

When UMA's uUSD expires, the outstanding uUSD becomes "de-pegged", and redeemable for the underlying collateral: ETH.

When Yield Protocol's fyDai expires it remains as Dai, but the fixed rate becomes a variable rate. This could be seen as "opening a CDP on the borrower's behalf."

### When will you release a governance token?
There are no current plans to release a governance token.

### How is APR calculated?

(getFyDaiReserves / getDaiReserves)^(1/4) - 1 should be APR (3 months to maturity)
pool.sellFYDaiPreview(1)**(time to maturity in years) - 1

### What is the fee structure? Formula/parameters?
The fee structure is detailed in our [YieldSpace paper](https://yield.is/YieldSpace.pdf). See Section 5.

### When telegram?
We have a thriving community in [Discord](https://discord.com/channels/752978124614008945), join us there!

### Does MakerDAO have to have support for all assets that can be listed on yield?
Yield only works for Dai for v1 and only accepts ETH collateral

### Is this built with UMA?
Yield is not built with UMA. It is built on top of Maker

### Are there any major differences between fyDai and UMA's uUSD?
The two main differences are the collateral asset and the pool mechanics.

> In UMA you can use any asset approved by the UMA governance, while in Yield you will use Dai for Lending and Liquidity or Eth for Borrowing. Post maturity on uUSD you will have exposure to ETH, while in Yield you will have exposure to Dai.

Reviewer 2: Actually the collateral assets are uUSDrBTC uses renBTC and uUSDwETH uses WETH

Reviewer: It's written in L47 below

Yield is not built with UMA. It is built on top of Maker.

### Are there any major differences between fyDai and UMA's uUSD?

> The main differences are the collateral assets, the settlement assets, and the pool mechanics.

Reviewer 2: I think we should remove the pool mechanics since UMA could use YieldSpace, in theory. Suggested answer: 
 
One significant difference is that UMA's uUSD is cash-settled while Yield's fyDai is physically settled. Specifically, when UMA's uUSD expires, the outstanding uUSD becomes "de-pegged", and redeemable for the underlying collateral: WETH for uUSDwETH, renBTC for uUSDrBTC. Conversely, when Yield Protocol's fyDai expires it is redeemable for Dai, so the fixed rate becomes a variable rate (the DSR). This could be seen as "opening a Maker Vault on the borrower's behalf."

Author: UMA could use YieldSpace, but it does not. Right now is something in which Yield is better than UMA for fixed-rate, and we should clearly state so.

When Yield Protocol's fyDai expires it is redeemable for Dai, so the fixed rate becomes a variable rate (the DSR). This could be seen as "opening a CDP on the borrower's behalf."

When UMA's uUSD expires, the outstanding uUSD becomes "de-pegged", and redeemable for the underlying collateral: WETH for uUSDwETH, renBTC for uUSDrBTC.

> In UMA you can use any asset approved by the UMA governance, while in Yield v1 you will use Dai for Lending and Liquidity or Eth for Borrowing.

Reviewer 2: This is not correct, based on the de-pegging language above.

> The portfolio value is calculated as `(fyDai * APR) / (days to maturity / 365)`

Reviewer 2: Portfolio value (at maturity) is the fyDai balance which represents the amount of Dai that the fyDai can be redeemed for at maturity.

### I lent some Dai, and the Current Value is show as less that I invested, why?

> when you lend you are selling Dai to the pool, and getting fyDai back. When you close your position you are selling the fyDai that you got before, and getting Dai. Both operations in the pool involve paying a fee of around 5% on the interest rate. If that specific maturity has an interest rate of a 3%, the fee would be of about (0.03 * 0.05 * trade size) in Dai. The portfolio value is thus reduced by the trading fee, and the Current Value reflects the return on selling the fyDai in the pool, which reflects the fee, interest rate changes, and slippage.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is right: "(0.03 * 0.05 * trade size)".  The fee is effectively an interest rate so shouldn't it be calculated like one? Where is the time component?
